Introduce CIS-0 Standard Detection (#27)
Concordium/concordium-update-proposals: source/CIS/cis-0.rst

   * - Standard identifier
     - ``CIS-0``

.. warning::

   This standard is still a draft and significant changes might still be made.

Abstract
========

A standardized interface for how a smart contract indicate supported smart contract standards.
Additionally, this specification includes a list of identifiers for each standard used on the Concordium blockchain.

The interface provides an entrypoint for querying the smart contract about whether it supports a given standard. The smart contract responds with either: not supported, supported or supported by some contract address.

Specification
=============

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED",  "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in :rfc:`2119`.

.. _CIS-0-standard-identifer:

Standard identifer
-------------------

Each standard MUST have a unique identifier.
An identifier is a variable-length ASCII string up to 255 characters.

The identifier is serialized as: first 1 byte for the length followed this many bytes for the ASCII encoding of the identifier::

  StandardIdentifier ::= (n: Byte) (id: Byteⁿ)

> The table below contains the current standards and associated standard identifier.

Reviewer: What table?

Contract function
-----------------

A smart contract implementing CIS-0 MUST export the following function: :ref:`CIS-0-functions-supports`.

.. _CIS-0-functions-supports:

``supports``
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Query supported standards using a list of standard identifers. The response contains a corresponding result for each standard identifier, where the result is either "Standard is not supported", "Standard is supported by this contract" or "Standard is supported by using some contract address".

.. note::

>    The result of "Standard is supported by using some contract address" can be used to add support of smart contract standards in another smart contract.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The result of "Standard is supported by using some contract address" can be used to add support for smart contract standards in another smart contract.
```

It is serialized as: 2 bytes for the number (little endian) of results (``n``) and then this number of support results (``results``).
A support result is serialized as either: a byte with value ``0`` for "Standard is not supported", a byte with the value ``1`` for "Standard is support by this contract" or a byte with value ``2`` for "Standard is supported by using another contract address" followed by a single byte encoding the number of contract addresses, then this number of contract addresses (``address``).
A contract address is serialized as: first 8 bytes for the index (``index``) followed by 8 bytes for the subindex (``subindex``) both little endian::

  ContractAddress ::= (index: Byte⁸) (subindex: Byte⁸)

  SupportResult ::= (0 : Byte)                             // Standard is not supported
                  | (1 : Byte)                             // Standard is supported by this contract
                  | (2 : Byte) (n: Byte) (address: ContractAddressⁿ)  // Standard is supported by using one of these contract addresses.

  SupportsResponse ::= (n : Byte²) (results: SupportResultⁿ)

Requirements
~~~~~~~~~~~~

> - The number of results in the response MUST correspond to the number of the queries in the parameter.
> - The order of results in the response MUST correspond to the order of queries in the parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The sequence of results in the response MUST correspond to the sequence of queries in the parameter.
```

> - The contract function MUST reject if any of the queries fail to produce a result.

Reviewer: It seems that in theory it could say "not supported" for any queries that fail to produce a result. So maybe this could be MAY reject?

.. _CIS-0:

=========================
CIS-0: Standard Detection
=========================

.. list-table::
   :stub-columns: 1

   * - Created
     - Jul 14, 2022
   * - Draft version
     - 1
   * - Supported versions
     - | Smart contract version 1 or newer
       | (Protocol version 4 or newer)
   * - Standard identifier
     - ``CIS-0``

.. warning::

   This standard is still a draft and significant changes might still be made.

Abstract
========

> A standardized interface for how a smart contract publish supported smart contract standards.

Reviewer 2: It is rather strange to state it as "publish" since no publishing is being done.

Perhaps "report" or "indicate"?

Additionally, this specification includes a list of identifiers for each standard used on the Concordium blockchain.

> The interface provides an entrypoint for querying the smart contract, whether it supports a given standard. The smart contract respond with either: not supported, supported or supported by some contract address.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The interface provides an entrypoint for querying the smart contract about whether it supports a given standard. The smart contract responds with either: not supported, supported, or supported by some contract address.
```

Specification
=============

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED",  "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in :rfc:`2119`.

.. _CIS-0-standard-identifer:

Standard identifer
-------------------

Each standard MUST have a unique identifier.

> An identifier is a variable-length ASCII string up to 100 characters.

Reviewer 2: Why not 255 then?

Author: no real reason I guess.
I'll make it 255

The identifier is serialized as: first 1 byte for the length followed this many bytes for the ASCII encoding of the identifier::

  StandardIdentifier ::= (n: Byte) (id: Byteⁿ)

The table below contains the current standards and associated standard identifier.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 2 1 1

   * - Standard
     - Identifier
     - Encoded
   * - :ref:`CIS-0`
     - ``CIS-0``
     - ``054349532d30``
   * - :ref:`CIS-1`
     - ``CIS-1``
     - ``054349532d31``
   * - :ref:`CIS-2`
     - ``CIS-2``

>      - ``054349532d32``

Reviewer 2: I am not sure this table should be part of the standard since it means we have to keep updating the standard.

We need to have a better way of doing this.

Author: I have already added the identifier in the specification of each of the current standards.
So I'll should just remove this table.

.. note::

   The above table will be expanded with identifers, when new standards are introduced.

Contract functions
------------------

> A smart contract implementing CIS-0 MUST export the following function: :ref:`CIS-0-functions-supports`.

Reviewer 2: What is the rationale for this name. What does "functions" refer to?

Author: I try to follow the same structure as CIS-1 and CIS-2, but I have made "functions" to singular now

Reviewer 3: `functions` is still plural.

Reviewer 3: And how does it match the structure of CIS-1+2? Their endpoints are called `transfer`, `balanceOf` etc.

  SupportsParameter ::= (n : Byte²) (ids: StandardIdentifierⁿ)

Response
~~~~~~~~

The function output is a list of support results, where the order of the support results matches the order of standard identifers in the parameter.

It is serialized as: 2 bytes for the number (little endian) of results (``n``) and then this number of support results (``results``).
A support result is serialized as either: a byte with value ``0`` for "Standard is not supported", a byte with the value ``1`` for "Standard is support by this contract" or a byte with value ``2`` for "Standard is supported by using another contract address" followed by the contract address (``address``).
A contract address is serialized as: first 8 bytes for the index (``index``) followed by 8 bytes for the subindex (``subindex``) both little endian::

  ContractAddress ::= (index: Byte⁸) (subindex: Byte⁸)

  SupportResult ::= (0 : Byte)                             // Standard is not supported
                  | (1 : Byte)                             // Standard is supported by this contract

>                   | (2 : Byte) (address: ContractAddress)  // Standard is supported by using another contract address

Reviewer 2: Would there be a sense of allowing more than one address?

  SupportsResponse ::= (n : Byte²) (results: SupportResultⁿ)

Requirements
~~~~~~~~~~~~

> - The number of results in the response MUST correspond to the number of the queries in the parameter.

Reviewer 2: I guess you could also technically state that no duplicate results should be provided, and each query should have a response.

Author: I have added a requirement for the contract function to reject if failing to produce a result to a query.
Which should be enough to cover these

  SupportsParameter ::= (n : Byte²) (ids: StandardIdentifierⁿ)

Response
~~~~~~~~

The function output is a list of support results, where the order of the support results matches the order of standard identifers in the parameter.

It is serialized as: 2 bytes for the number (little endian) of results (``n``) and then this number of support results (``results``).
A support result is serialized as either: a byte with value ``0`` for "Standard is not supported", a byte with the value ``1`` for "Standard is support by this contract" or a byte with value ``2`` for "Standard is supported by using another contract address" followed by a single byte encoding the number of contract address then this number of contract addresses (``address``).
A contract address is serialized as: first 8 bytes for the index (``index``) followed by 8 bytes for the subindex (``subindex``) both little endian::

  ContractAddress ::= (index: Byte⁸) (subindex: Byte⁸)

  SupportResult ::= (0 : Byte)                             // Standard is not supported
                  | (1 : Byte)                             // Standard is supported by this contract

>                   | (2 : Byte) (n: Byte) (address: ContractAddressⁿ)  // Standard is supported by using one of these contract addresses.

Reviewer 3: I think we should still consider adding more details as to what this means. We could give an example with proxies.

Author: I have added a note in the description of the `supports` function, let me know what you think

.. _CIS-0:

=========================
CIS-0: Standard Detection
=========================

.. list-table::
   :stub-columns: 1

   * - Created
     - Jul 14, 2022
   * - Draft version
     - 1
   * - Supported versions
     - | Smart contract version 1 or newer
       | (Protocol version 4 or newer)
   * - Standard identifier
     - ``CIS-0``

.. warning::

>    This standard is still a draft and significant changes might still be made.

Reviewer 2: Is this still relevant? When do we intend to finalize it then?

Abstract
========

> A standardized interface for how a smart contract indicate supported smart contract standards.

Reviewer 2: There is a typo here, it should be "indicates" or some other rewording.

The function output is a list of support results, where the order of the support results matches the order of standard identifers in the parameter.

It is serialized as: 2 bytes for the number (little endian) of results (``n``) and then this number of support results (``results``).

> A support result is serialized as either: a byte with value ``0`` for "Standard is not supported", a byte with the value ``1`` for "Standard is support by this contract" or a byte with value ``2`` for "Standard is supported by using another contract address" followed by a single byte encoding the number of contract address then this number of contract addresses (``address``).

Reviewer 3: ```
number of contract addresses, then this number of contract address ...
                          ^^^
```
Added `es,`
